2016 wrap up!

So things got a little rocky in 2016. I had a 3 month block (early Feb through early May) when I was out of work. The subsequent move to Norfolk threw me way off on keeping track of all these shows, which is why I'm just now getting to this post in April. This is gonna be a long post with lots of bands being tagged; do yourself a favor and check out at least a couple of them.

Shows in 2016: 163

Unique bands seen: 510
Bands seen for the first time: 392 (76%, average of 32.6 new bands per month). 
 
Unique venues attended: 85
New venues attended: 51 (60%)
Number of cities I saw shows in: 34
Top 5 cities for shows: Virginia Beach (34), Norfolk (30), Richmond (22), Lynchburg (18), Chesapeake (8)
Number of countries I saw shows in: 2

Month with the most shows: Tie between June and August (17 shows).
Month with the fewest shows: March (9), tied for my record low since Oct '14. 
Longest period of time without a show: 7 days (Nov 23-29 and Dec 19-27). 
Longest streak of shows: 9 days (Dec 4-12)

Notable new bands to me in 2016:
AzurA, Tigerwine, Microwave, Tiny Moving Parts, Future Primitive, Caspian, Black Mask, Beggar's Row, Pyotr, Born Sick, Eaves, Night Verses, Ella Vader, Harm, Gardens, Donovan Wolfington, Drug Church, The Record Collection, Enamity, Christian Welch, Formerly Bodies, Poncho Model, Riviera, Emarosa, Less Than Jake, Naysayer, Suicide Season, Boxford, Chloe Wallace

---

Bands I saw 3+ times in 2016:
6 Chris Bernstorf
5 Kevin Schlereth
5 Fin
4 Someone Just Like You
4 Quick On My Feet
4 Pathway Home
4 Invaluable
4 Household
4 Hemingway
4 Ella Vader
4 Eaves
4 Dwell
4 Comrades
3 White Petals
3 Tigerwine
3 The Last Bison
3 Pyotr
3 Paper Trail
3 Oh Sleeper
3 Never I
3 Logan Vath
3 Kept On Hold
3 Joy
3 Jake Ziegler and the Locals
3 Genosha
3 Gaffer Project
3 Dogs Eyes
3 Countermeasures
3 Christian Welch
3 Broken Harmonics
3 Born Sick
3 Born Hollow
3 Beggar's Row

---

Top 10 shows (in no particular order):

Greer Fest in Greensboro - This was an insane hardcore fest which included Advent's first show back in years. On top of that, Dogs Eyes, Joy, Future Primitive, Poured Out, and Dwell all played, among others. It was intense. This was one of the very rare shows I moshed at all yet. It wasn't exactly that I *wanted* to mosh; I just found myself on the floor in the pit during Advent and knew that might be the only way to get out alive, so I just started swinging. 

Oh Sleeper in Lynchburg - OS and Lynchburg is always a hard combo to top, and this show was no exception. Right before their set I ran outside to chug a Monster to make sure I could keep up, haha.

Comeback Kid in Harrisonburg - Alongside Oh Sleeper, Comeback Kid is one of my favorite bands to see live. Always high energy, always awesome, and this time I finally got to see them headline a show.

Underoath and Caspian in Norfolk - The first stop I saw of UO's comeback tour. I actually had no intention of going to this, but I had a job interview in town that day and Justin had an extra ticket he was giving away that no one was claiming. 

Underoath and Caspian in Charlotte - More of the same, and even more intense than the previous stop had been.

Comrades, Tigerwine, and Chris Bernstorf at Leftovers in Roanoke - One of my most-missed venues since I moved out to Norfolk. Comrades is always a stellar show, and Tigerwine was new to me then but pretty dang good themselves. What solidified this show's inclusion on this list though was the fact that Chris did his set in the bathroom. So far, I think that's the weirdest place I've seen an artist perform. 

The Story So Far and Hit the Lights in Virginia Beach - This show was packed. There were enough people down front that forming a mosh pit was nearly impossible, not that it stopped a handful of people from constantly trying. The unyielding movement of the crowd reminded me of the Circa Survive show I went to some time back. Tons of fun. 

Past Hope, Varials, Guttersnipe, Poured Out, Crooked Society, and Vicious Embrace in Elkton - Home Plate is a pretty sweet spot for house shows, and this was hands down the biggest and most intense house show I've seen. DE/MD hardcore made this crazy from start to finish.

Dogwood Tales, Chris Oberholtzer, Zach Ulmer, Jordan Coley, and Pyotr in Lynchburg - First show I booked and first house show I hosted. Beyond that, it's basically a shortlist of many of my favorite acoustic artists and good friends. 

Iron Maiden near Detroit - It's Iron Maiden, enough said.

The Polyenso, Zao, Emarosa, Less Than Jake, and Ellie Goulding shows I saw just barely didn't make this list. All were pretty great in their own right.

---

Now for some random/weird facts, notes, quotes, or whatever from the year. These are just arranged in whatever order I thought of them.

As I said earlier, Chris Bernstorf did a set in a bathroom, which deserves being mentioned twice. He also almost lit a shirt on fire while doing a set in a kitchen.

When I went up to MI to see Iron Maiden, it turned out Household had a show nearby just before it. Seeing their surprise at me appearing in MI unannounced was pretty funny.

I still maintain that it was *not* my fault that we were locked out of the van for a few hours in WV on the way to Pittsburgh (Jacob, Caleb, Andy). Even if it was though, it was a good time. Well, for most of us.

Some random guy passed out into my arms at the Born of Osiris show in Richmond. Trying to get the people around me to also notice and realize I couldn't pick him up myself was a bit of a challenge mid-song.

A fight broke up during Heavens Die's set in VB. It pretty much emptied out the whole bar, leaving them awkwardly on stage with almost no one left. Show ended up just taking a brief break to wait for people to trickle back in, but that moment of silence and the band's confused looks about how to proceed after theat were pretty funny.

On the subject of big fights, the fights that broke out at Advent's show at The Hut and at Agnostic Front's show at Shakas were probably two of the longest I've seen. It was almost odd how long they lasted.

Just after Levi the Poet finished the part of his set the projecter was needed for, the power went out. The timing could not have been more fortuitous. Just a few minutes earlier and it might have messed things up. Instead it just meant the last couple poems were delivered in darkness.

When I saw letlive, I remember their vocalist explaining he'd been sick and that the doctor has essentially told them there was no way he should be performing in the state he was in. While it did calm down his performance a good bit compared to previous times I've seen them, the fact that still managed to get on stage and deliver a great show was admirable.

"Eating food and playing wiffle ball--that's what hardcore's about." - James Pligge, vocalist of Harm's Way.

--

This post in memory of Threads, The Sleepover, The Handsome Bandits, The Record Collection, Foundation, and Arson's Harbor (I think, that might just be a hiatus, I don't know). 
