Show count: 15

Cities/Venues:
Norfolk: Waterside District, The NorVa, Norfolk Taphouse, Charlie's American Cafe
Virginia Beach: Hook Up Cafe, Shaka's Live
Chesapeake: Riffhouse Pub
Richmond: Canal Club, Strange Matter, Walmsley Blvd United Methodist Church
Baltimore: The Sidebar
Rehoboth Beach: Dogfish Head Brewings and Eats
Greensboro: New York Pizza

Bands (highlights tagged): mOcean, Third Eye Blind, Dead and Dreaming, Souvenirs, Nothing, AFI, Vagabon, Tegan and Sara, Hatefuck, Weary Travelers, West Berlin, Years Apart, Generator, Autopsy Affair, Rotten, Invoking the Abstract, Enfold Darkness, Calm the Waters, pulses, DENS, Belle Noire, Comrades, Strawberry Girls, DJ Justin Aswell, Black Liquid, Froggy Fresh, Catalyst, Eight Inner Gates, Amid the Roar, I Ohms, Sykosis, Y!kes, Valleys, On Better Terms, Colin Phils, Boxford, Rowan, Northern Ghost, Set to Stun, The Dead Rabbits, Vicious Embrace, Heavens Die, Poured Out, Stoop Kids, Lowpoints, Pry, Deathsinger, Cory Lanza, Kevin Putnam, Josh Crocker, Kate Price, Duke Stamina, Harm

New venues: /13
New bands: /53

----


June wrap up!

Despite it being above average as far as number of shows, this month felt pretty laid back compared to the whirlwind that May was. This was also the first time I got more than 4 hours from home and went somewhere totally new since moving to the VB area. I finally checked another state (Delaware) off my list of states I had not yet seen a show in too, which is cool.

Shows in June: 15
Shows in 2017 so far: 110

Notable new artists to me: West Berlin, Belle Noire, Strawberry Girls, Colin Phils, Duke Stamina

Best show: Comrades/Strawberry Girls at Canal Club

Shows I was bummed to miss: Iron Maiden in Bristow, Autumn Brand in Raleigh, Ray Buckner/Kevin Schlereth in Richmond, and I also missed a couple In The Water and Eaves shows.

Dead and Dreaming played 4 songs when I saw them; three of those ended in fights. By the time they got to the 3rd song, the bartenders were actually standing on the bar basically just waiting to intervene in the inevitable. Gotta love VB sometimes lol. 

I drove 5+ hours after work (thanks DC traffic - _ -) to get to Poured Out's last Baltimore show, only to find out it sold out before I got there. Managed to slip in anyways, which I'm not a fan of doing, but I wasn't about to just give up and leave without trying. Would've been quite irked if I'd gone all that way for nothing. 

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 3 of the 13 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 34 of the 53 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2017: 4.23
Days/shows ratio so far for 2017: 1.65:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 1.739
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.05

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066
