Show count: 34

Cities/Venues:
Richmond: Strange Matter, Canal Club, Identity House, Walmsley Blvd United Methodist Church, Broadberry, The Camel
Norfolk: Toast, Charlie's American Cafe, Torch, Waterside District, Norfolk Taphouse, The NorVa, Two and Ghost, Stockley Gardens Park, Bearded Bird Brewing
Portsmouth: Olde Towne
Hampton: Mill Point Park, Park Lane Tavern
Virginia Beach: Peabody's Nightclub
Fayetteville: Drunk Horse Pub

Bands (highlights tagged): Unwanted, Sow, Long Knife, 惡AI意, My Son Bison, The Anatomy of Frank, Pet Name, Angelica Garcia, Nate Sacks and the LifeHacks, Logan Vath, David Bazan, Berries, Lance Bangs, You're Jovian, Omni, Shadows, No Zodiac, Spite, Aversions Crown, Slaughter to Prevail, Oceano, Die Faster, Accident Prone, Born Hollow, DSGNS, New Politics, Weezer, False Cape, Mosquito Cabaret, Saving Daylight, Broken Pews, Fred Karaum, Oryssa, Autopsy Affair, O House of Jacob, Give Em Hell Kid, Until the Wind Shifts, Softspoken, A Scent Like Wolves, RVNT, Eaves, Gaffer Project, Kept on Hold, Amessa, Kevin Schelereth, Milestones, Knuckle Puck, Mayday Parade, Slaghead, CrossJoint, Bungler, Turncoat, Chloe Wallace, Through Life In Mono, In the Water, Vagabonds, Chris Bernstorf, Hexist, Clary Sage, Earthworm von Doom, Human Services, Pyrrhic Whim, Little Doors, Urban Hill, Ras Attitude, Keith Poppin, Amid the Road, Catalyst, Jimmy Rigg, Eight Inner Gates, School of Rock Norfolk House Band, Roebuck, The Cables, Nesta, Like Pacific, Crown the Empire, Less than Jake, Good Charlotte, Brian Sewell, Russ, Don Babylon, Ceremony, Buck Gooter, A Place to Bury Strangers, HDY BOY, Defuzed, L1V3LY, San Holo, Holly Would, Rowan, Rosedale, The Burning Hearts, RescueMe, Left Behind, Gideon, Broadside, Tiny Moving Parts, Have Mercy, Real Friends, Okilly Dokilly, Wailin Storms, Unmaker, The Mad Children, Vanilla Summit, Weekend Plans, Noah Gunderson, City and Colour

New venues: 10/20
New bands: 68/107

---


May wrap up!

May got a little crazy. My only regret is not realizing it would be a record-breaking month sooner, because then I could have bolstered my personal records just a bit more. Despite that, I still managed to go to more shows than there were days in the month, set a weekly record of 10 shows, and go on what was probably my longest uninterrupted streak of shows thusfar (24 days, 32 shows), so I'm not complaining. Absolutely exhausting month, but worth it.

Shows in May: 34
Shows in 2017 so far: 95

Notable new bands to me: Sow, 惡AI意, DSGNS, Slaughter to Prevail, Oceano, Mosquito Caberet, Bungler, Ras Attitude, Okilly Dokilly, Weekend Plans

Best show: This is a hard call. Lots of great individual bands make it hard to pick an overall show. Gonna have to say Broadside/Tiny Moving Parts/Have Mercy/Real Friends in Richmond, though.

Shows I was bummed to miss:
Avenged Sevenfold/Three Days Grace in VB, Amon Amarth in Richmond, Greer Fest in Greensboro, Every Time I Die in Harrisonburg, Chasing Victory in AL, Flood City Fest in PA, and Bon Iver around here. Either conflicts or other timing issues made most of those impossible to get to. 

Best new band names: Mosquito Caberet, Earthworm Von Doom

New merch that's earned me the weirdest looks: AI. Not 100% sure why, but I'm gonna guess the hand that looks like it's flipping someone off if you see it at the wrong angle might be partly to blame? (At least, that's definitely where it looked like one person was looking)

Most last minute scramble for a backup show: I found out a show in Richmond was canceled after I got to the venue. Fortunately, there were 3-4 other shows in Richmond that night, despite it being in the middle of the week. 

This month I went to one show for every month I've been actively going to shows (as opposed to just going on occasion), plus one more. 

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 10 of the 20 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 68 of the 107 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2017: 4.318
Days/shows ratio so far for 2017: 1.6:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 1.696
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.03

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066
