Show count: 17

Cities/Venues:
Norfolk: Charlie's American Cafe, Norfolk Taphouse, The NorVa, Ted Constant Convocation Center
Richmond: Identity House, Walmsley Blvd United Methodist Church, Canal Club
Virginia Beach: Hook Up Cafe, Shaka's Live

Bands (highlights tagged): Division of Mind, Invoke, Paper Trail, Lorri Fruik, Zach Ulmer, Ray Buckner, Gaffer Project, Porstmouth, Idle Threat, Formerly Bodies, Eaves, Terrain, Sin, Unit 28, The Jukebox Romantics, Mirrors, Fire From The Gods, Within the Ruins, Oceans Ate Alaska, Volumes, Born of Osiris, Constellations, Mae, Against Me!, Green Day, Faded, Deathsinger, Dwell, Breaking Wheel, Like Pacific, Movements, Counterparts, Senses Fail, Hollyn, Ryan Stevenson, Capital Kings, Mac Powell, Mandisa, Matt Maher, TobyMac, Stereobloom, Give Em Hell Kid, 3PM, Capstan, Hearts Like Lions, The Ongoing Concept, Boneske, Tapestries, Sunndrug, Mangalista, Catalyst, High Priest, Slaghead, Cruelsfix, Buzzherd, Deathhouse Blues, The Fat Catz, Boxford, Just Standing, Generator, RescueMe, I Ohms, Bar Parents, Padfoot, Prince Daddy and the Hyena, Ella Vader, Skinny Lister, Flogging Molly, Sleep On It, Can't Swim, Four Year Strong

New venues: 1/9
New bands: 44/71

----


March wrap up!

Once again, narrowly avoided not going to a new venue. Between moving and a new job, I don't get as much traveling in as I'd like, so finding myself at new venues is getting more and more infrequent. March was a nice mix of stuff. Lots of friends' bands, touring acts I always love seeing, and bigger bands people seem shocked I'd never listened to (fun fact: I'd never knowingly listened to Senses Fail or Flogging Molly until the day of those respective shows).

Shows in March: 17
Shows in 2017 so far: 45

Notable new bands to me: Lorri, Idle Threat, Portsmouth, Like Pacific, Hollyn, Sleep on It

Best show: Probably Like Pacific/Movements, with Sleep On It/Four Year Strong being a close second. LP and SOI in particular both grabbed my attention, go check them out (esp. "22A" for LP and "Let Me Go"/"Unspoken" for SOI). Or maybe Green Day--I really have no idea what my favorite show was for this month.

Shows I was bummed to miss: Divebomb at Charlie's, Moose Blood in Richmond, Deafheaven/This Will Destroy You in Richmond, Thousand Foot Krutch in Norfolk (I was at the show, but just late enough to miss them), The Fritz in VB, and Katatonia in DC (which I somehow missed after looking forward to it for months). I'm going to be kicking myself about missing Katatonia forever.

Most entertaining fellow show-goer: Middle-aged woman at Green Day. First, she gets into a push pit and comes out saying "I'm so cool. I may be old but I'm still cool." Then someone stepped on her foot, which changed her tune to "Nevermind I'm not cool enough for this." Eventually she decided she wanted to crowd surf; we got her up, and she made it about 3 people before she got dropped. "I am going to tell everyone at the office tomorrow! I am going to be so cool!" Also of note from that show: a couple of the kids that got dragged on stage to sing for parts of songs surprisingly owned it stage presence-wise. I mostly expected them to maybe nail the words, but otherwise stand there nervously in front of those few thousand people, but they ran that stage better than most vocalists I've seen.  

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 1 of the 9 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 44 of the 71 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2017: 3.46
Days/shows ratio so far for 2017: 2.02:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 1.52
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 13.32

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066
