Show count: 18

Cities/Venues:
Norfolk: The Granby Theater, Public House, The NorVa, Two and Ghost, Charlie's American Cafe
Lynchburg: The White Hart, Conbon's Garage, Kegney Brothers
Richmond: Canal Club, Strange Matter, The Camel
Petersburg: Old Towne Studio 7
Fredericksburg: DeSeta House
Hot Springs: Maxine's Live
Dallas: The Door
Thackerville: Winstar World Casino and Resort

Bands (highlights tagged): Sunndrug, Prayer Group, True Body, Demons, Kevin Schlereth, Dover and the Elevators, Wesley Montgomery, From the Wild, Valleyheart, David Haught, Logan Vath, Seth Stainback, Dustin Furlow, Bon Iver, Stereo-Types, The Grievance Club, Riviera, House&Home, Forest Green, Eaves, Paperback (2x), Weathered (2x), Chris Bernstorf (2x), Darlington, Halfcast, R-Dent, Sleave, Josie McQueen, Mykal Allen, Year As A Ghost, Every King and Commoner, Woven in Hiatus, (neverAM), Brian Howerin, Ray Buckner, Sam's the Hero, Keilan Creech, Landon Elliott and the Goods, Sun Parade, Defuzed, Boogie T, FuntCase, Snails, Obscure Son, Recluse Raccoon, Pool Kids, Floating Teeth, Locker Room, Travis Bryant, Belle Epoque, Oh Sleeper, Hall and Oates

New venues: 6/16
New bands: 33/52
-----------------------------------------------

December wrap up!

Finally caught up on the monthly wrap-ups. Now, I can get back to work on that yearly one (trying to nail down my top 10 or so shows for the year is frustrating). Anyways, lots of stuff happened this month, so this will be longer than these wrap-ups typically are. 

December got a little crazy at the end when I decided to take my longest trip to date (in miles, for sure, and maybe in days as well) when I drove to Dallas to see Oh, Sleeper. Started in NC, stopped in TN and AR on the way there, then swung through OK to catch Hall and Oates before spending 22 of the next 26.5 hours driving straight back home (with a nap in TN making up the remaining 4.5) to head back to work later that morning. By the end of the trip, I'd crossed 3 more states off of my list of states I hadn't seen shows in yet (almost halfway done!). Can't say I'm a huge fan of driving quite that long, but I did get through a good chunk of some Branson Sanderson audiobooks, which I'm def not complaining about. 

I also got a lot more time than usual just to hang out or see people I don't get to see too much anymore while on the road this month. Ran into several old friends in Lynchburg, had more time in Petersburg/Fredericksburg than I expected (more on that below), got to hang out and chat with Woven in Hiatus and with Ray at my house after their respective shows, then got to see family in NC, TN, and TX. I used to take multi-day trips more frequently and always tried to find some time to go hang out with whoever was in whatever region I ended up in; between less vacation time and a less convenient starting point, I don't get to do that as much now, so I thoroughly enjoyed having a month packed with it. 

Shows in December: 18
Shows in 2017: 211

Notable new artists to me: Dustin Furlow, Paperback, Weathered (I had their EP on loop for days, seriously go check it out), Woven in Hiatus, Belle Epoque

Best show: Oh Sleeper. I now understand why Lynchburg's just their 2nd favorite place to play. Dallas did not disappoint.

Shows I was bummed to miss: The Hush Sound played two shows this month. Neither was anywhere near me and both would have been crazy to try and get to, but I really, really wanted to. 

Best weather-forced trip adjustments: Petersburg/Fredericksburg. Snow had me spend the night near Petersburg and get to Fredericksburg super early. That meant (1) getting some of John Born's mom's amazing stew, (2) finally getting to explore downtown Fredericksburg, which I found out is a dangerous place for my wallet with its spice and tea store, among other things, and (3) getting to hang with Chris and the Weathered guys for a couple days (and finding out Chris is more concerned with exploding shuriken and coffee than saving helpless civilians :P). 

Best banter: The whole "everyone has to have a song about Sam's the Hero" thing at that house show. Especially when they pulled out "Don't Talk To Ray" in response Ray's pained rant about how they didn't have a song about him despite their long, involved history (they'd just met that night). 

Best merch: Valleyheart sold candles, furthering my slow replacement of half the things I own with band merch.

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 6 of the 16 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 33 of the 52 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2017: 3.98
Days/shows ratio for 2017: 1.73:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 2.06
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.50

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066

