2017 wrap up!

Actually posting this wrap up in January instead of in April like my wrap up for last year, much better lol. Overall, 2017 was cool. I got to host a decent number of shows at my own house (which I'd done a couple times before, but never regularly); I broke my record for number of shows seen in a month, and I knocked 7 more states off the list of states I've yet to see a show in. October and November got a bit rough for a variety of reasons, but December felt crafted to try and bring things back around to end on a brighter note. I took my longest trip to date to see one of my favorite bands play one of their hometown venue's final shows, and somehow that was just a fraction of what made December great.

This will be a long post with a bunch of band's and such tagged. Do yourself a favor and check some of them out.
----------
Now for some numbers and stuff

Shows in 2017: 211

Month with the most shows: May (34) (new record!)
Month with the fewest shows: January and November (11)
Longest period of time without a show: 7 days (Jan 3-9 and Dec 22-28)
Longest streak of shows: 24 days, 32 shows (May 8th-31st)

Unique bands seen: 625
Bands seen for the first time: 456 (72.96%, average of 38 new bands per month). 

Unique venues attended: 65
New venues attended: 45 (69.23%)
Top 5 venues by showcount: NorVa (29), Charlie's (21), Shaka's (18), Two and Ghost (13), Norfolk Taphouse (11)

Number of cities I saw shows in: 24 
Top 5 cities for shows: Norfolk (105), Richmond (43), Virginia Beach (25), Lynchburg (7), Chesapeake (6)

States I saw a show in for the first time: 7 (AR, CT, DE, OK, MA, RI, TX)
Total states I've seen shows in: 23 (almost halfway done!)
199/211 shows were in VA. NC took second place with 4 shows, lol. 

Longest nonstop drive: ~710 miles from Thackerville, OK to Murfreesboro, TN. I slept there for about 4-5 hours then immediately drove another ~710 miles from Murfreesboro back to Norfolk.  

Earlier this year, a coworker told me I should try and go to a show on every calendar date. I figured that sounded as good as any other goal to aim for, so I started keeping track of that too (and found out I'd already taken care of Leap Day, thankfully!). So, with respect to that...
Months left to complete: 11/12 (weirdly, despite seening 34 shows in May there are still dates I haven't seen a show in May)
Days left to complete: 33/366 

----------
Ok, enough stats and numbers, here's more about specific bands/shows

Best bands I saw for the first time this year (alphabetical order):
Anchor the Airship, Colin Phils, Every Time I Die, Like Pacific, Mosquito Cabaret, Sabella, Sleep On It, Weathered

Other notable bands I saw for the first time (reverse alphabetical order):
theLionhearted, That 1 Guy, Strawberry Girls, Sow, Sheldon Cole, Of Alessa, Mile Twelve, Kaonashi, Heartland Nomads, Every King and Commoner, DSGNS, Darlington, Code Orange, The Chicken Boys, 惡AI意

First band of the year (shortest to tallest): Same Time Tomorrow
Last band of the year (oldest to youngest): Hall and Oates

Bands I saw 3+ times in 2017:
11 Eaves
10 Logan Vath
8 Inthewater
7 Accident Prone
6 times: Chris Bernstorf, Deathsinger, Gaffer Project, Kevin Schlereth
5 times: Boxford, Catalyst, I Ohms, Mosquito Cabaret
4 times: Find Me Alive, Ray Buckner, Rowan, Slaghead, Sunndrug, Two Cars
3 times: Amid the Roar, Autopsy Affair, Eight Inner Gates, Every King and Commoner, Generator, Give Em Hell Kid, Idle Threat, Kept On Hold, Like Pacific, Murder, Next to Nothing, Paper Trail, RVNT, Same Time Tomorrow, Sam's the Hero, Through Life In Mono, Venomspitter

Top 10 shows (in chronological order):
Sabella/Kaonashi in Chesapeake: Not a lot to say here, these bands are both killer live. If you listen to hardcore at all, go see them live when you get the chance.

Every Time I Die/Knocked Loose/Harm's Way: I'm always up for seeing Harm's Way again (despite the fact that I still know none of their music lol), but this was my first time really hearing ETID or Knocked Loose. All three made for a great show (minus the random firecrackers someone set off). It was crazy from start to finish.

Green Day in Norfolk: I'll confess, I barely even know Green Day's music. I'm familiar with a handful of their biggest songs and not much else, but this was still an awesome show. They kept up a consistent energy more than I anticipated, and I ended up in a perfect part of the crowd with some interesting characters (like the middle-aged woman who was ecstatic about how cool she'd be when she told everyone at the office about how she'd crowdsurfed). A lot of fun from end to end.

Food and Friends tour, Norfolk: Maybe I'm biased because this was at my house, but I always look forward to the F&F tour every summer, so getting to host a stop of it at my place was super cool. Beyond that, it was a lineup of old friends I always love seeing (Kevin Schlereth, Chris Bernstorf, Tirades of a Timid Tongue) with a couple amazing artists that are newer to me (theLionhearted, Chloe Wallace). Outside the artists, just the array of awesome people there hanging out was amazing. AND there's a ton of good food. It's hard to top. 

Garage Fest in Lynchburg: There were so many good artists at this show (also I love Conbon's Garage for shows). Chad Lowry, Ray Buckner, Fin, Someone Just Like You, L.A. Dies, Anchor the Airship, Quick on My Feet--all great artists you need to be listening to. But the apex of this show for me was probably Wesley Montgomery (which is surprising, given how many of the other artists I already knew and loved). Check out his work on Bandcamp/Spotify/whatever, for sure, but Wesley is one of those artists you need to see live, and particularly in Lynchburg. "Ohio"'s a great song that takes on a whole new life in that crowd.

Zao in Richmond: I don't know that Zao could have played a more perfect set. Felt like it was catered to the subset of their music I'm particularly familiar with. They're legends, and it's awesome to see them back out on the road again.

Lantern Fest: Yet another stacked lineup. Of Alessa, L.A. Dies, Bloom, Inthewater, Kept on Hold, Eaves, Idle Threat, Chris Bernstorf -- so much talent and that's not even all of the artists. I had the bright idea to barely sleep the night before, so this all day show just about killed me (I *may* have hat to sneak out to nap in my car for a while), but it was well worth it.

The Story So Far/Turnstile in Virginia Beach: TSSF at Shaka's is always crazy. It's sold out, it's packed to the brim, and the energy level is insane. This was no different. It's one of those shows where I go in knowing I'm going to be sore for days afterwards and never regret it.

Chris Bernstorf/Weathered/Darlington in Fredericksburg: This show makes the list more for everything surrounding the actual show than the show itself. Thanks to some snow, I ended up stuck in Petersburg the previous night, which also led to me getting to Fredericksburg super early. Those two things combined meant I got to hang with Chris, Joe, Tina, and my new friends in Weathered way more than I otherwise would have been able to. Video games before the show (in which we learned Chris will let innocent lives be lost if he thinks he can find some coffee or exploding ninja stars), pizza afterwards--it was a great time. Oh yeah, AND the music was amazing. Go listen to Weathered right now. You should also listen to Darlington but I'm not sure she's got anything online (or even an FB page) so you might want to move to Fredericksburg and wait for her to play another show.

Oh, Sleeper in Dallas: I logged into Instagram for the first time in forever kind of randomly and saw a post about this show. Final show at The Door in Dallas, 10 year anniverary of Oh Sleeper's first album (also, I should note they're easily one of my top 2-3 favorite bands to see live). They've said Lynchburg, VA is their second favorite place to play before, and I've always wanted to catch them at their favorite spot. It was a rough drive, but the show was everything I anticipated it would be. Awesome show to close out the year on (well, almost close out the year on; there was one more after that). 

Honorable mentions (no particular order):
Every King and Commoner/Downhaul/Find Me Alive @ 2 & Ghost
Real Friends/Have Mercy/Tiny Moving Parts/Broadside @ Broadberry
Tegan and Sara in in Norfolk
Comrades/Strawberry Girls in Richmond
Mosquito Cabaret/Gaffer Project/Dover and the Elevators @ 2 & Ghost

----------
Now for just a grab bag of random facts/notes/quotes whatever from the year.

I saw Dead and Dreaming twice this year, and those were two of the most insane shows I've ever seen. Insanity in confined spaces.

Special thanks to Brandon Sanderson for the large amount of his work I listened to on all my drives. Audiobooks are awesome. 

Someone set of firecrackers in the pit during Knocked Loose. I'm pretty sure I mentioned that earlier, but still. Definitely the only time I've seen that happen. 

Best band names of the year: Headlessmantis, Mosquito Cabaret, Venus Guytrap.

I was in a Uber one night and ended up talking to the driver about how many shows I go to. He says "I just had some band guys in my car last night, maybe you know them. Can't remember the band name though. Someone and the something, maybe?" Miraculously, I guessed who he meant in one try (Bennett Wales and the Relief). 

I went to a pop punk show in Providence, RI and there was free pizza. You don't get more pop punk than that.

I discovered a thing called SoFar Sounds this year. It's an awesome organization that does small, intimate shows. They're all over the world, look it up.

----------

This post in memory of Ella Vader, letlive, Of Tyrants, Venomspitter, and The Door (Dallas venue). 
