Show count: 15

Cities/Venues:
Richmond: Broadberry
Lynchburg: Dapper Dan's Vapor Things, Phase 2
Norfolk: The NorVa, Pourhouse of Norfolk, Two and Ghost, The 4t
Harrisonburg: The Vine
Johnstown: Crucified Church
Falls Church: VFW Post 9274
Shelburne: Shelburne Museum
Concord: Concord City Auditorium
Portland: Oxbow Blending and Brewing

Bands (highlights tagged): Boy Named Banjo, The Ghost of Paul Revere, Xenith, To Serve Man, Power Hungry, From the Wild, Limbs, Veil of Maya, Dance Gavin Dance, Underoath, Saintseneca, Hop Along, Super Whatevr, Seaway, Sum 41, Demons, Morningside, Year as a Ghost, theLionhearted, Second to Safety, Every King and Commoner, Sundream, Time Nothing, Deathbreaker, Comrades, Qajaq, Embracer, Ugly Flannel, Namesake, Furnace Creek, Laura McElroy, Ankle Grease, Kept On Hold, Darlington, Eaves, Keyoung, Suffer Through, Christian Welch, Everyday, Ghost Servant, Orlee, Foxwell, Wind Words, Crooked Forest, Common Folk, Amessa, Formerly Bodies, Steel City Ruins, Peaceful Ways of War, Rosemont, Joey Berkey, Beggars, Tirades of a Timid Tongue, Inthewater, Janelle Marie, Bloom, Dad Jokes, My Heart My Anchor, Idle Threat, Gaffer Project, Dead Birds, Kevin Schlereth, Irae, Chris Bernstorf, Calling Down Fire, Canker Blossom, The Danger of Falling, Marshall B. Mulkey, The Chicken Boys, Paperback, Snake Mountain Revival, Tyler Ramsey, Fleet Foxes, NH Philharmonic Orchestra, Hayes Peebles, Dirty Bird, New Spine

New venues: 6/13
New bands: 43/77
-----------------------------------------------
May wrap up (because as usual, I've fallen behind on these, but this was a big one, been working on it on and off for a while)!

May was a little crazy. First, Two and Ghost had it's final show. A few days later I was in PA for Jayfest/Flood City Fest, and then for Memorial Day weekend I did a trip through Vermont/New Hampshire/Maine--none of which I'd been to before (and with that, I've passed the halfway point: 26 states down, 24 to go).

This month, after 21 shows, Two and Ghost sadly came to an end. Always wanted to be able to host house shows, so landing in a perfect spot to so was amazing. Thanks to everyone who played at or came to a 2&G show (even you people who for some reason thought it was a good idea to start a mosh pit in a packed living room). Cops showed up a few times, and were always cool and never shut us down. All in all it was a great run. Definitely going to miss that spot, can't wait to get something else started.

For the first time, I finally made it to Jayfest. I went in expecting it to be amazing, and was still beyond blown away. Nothing can beat just the time getting to see what feels like basically I everyone I've met the past few years in this chunk of the music scene. Felt like a family reunion, plus who knows how many great bands playing too. I'd gone in telling myself I was going to make myself meet at least one new person, quickly realized it was going to be overwhelming enough just to get a few seconds with everyone I already knew and gave up on meeting new people, and then made several new friends anyways. Can't wait for next year. Protip: pool noodles don't make great pillows, also applesauce pancakes are a wonderful thing.

My last big trip of May was a quick run through Vermont/New Hampshire/Maine. Got a chance to go hiking on Mt. Hunger in VT, which was gorgeous (even if it felt like it nearly killed me), had some great food, heard some good music. All in 3 days. As always seems to happen when I go up North, I go in anticipating the opposite of that typical Southern hospitality, and then get taken off guard when I inevitably keep running into people who make everyone down here look like coarse, uncaring brutes, haha.

Shows in May: 15
Shows in 2018 so far: 72

Notable new artists to me: To Serve Man, Second to Safety, Deathbreaker, Ankle Grease, Suffer Through, Orlee, Common Folk, Dead Birds, Canker Blossom, Dirty Bird

Best show: Flood City Fest, without a doubt. Even if you ignore all the music, it was still an absolutely worthwhile trip.

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 6 of the 13 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 43 of the 77 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2018: 3.43
Days/shows ratio so far for 2018: 2.10:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 2.26
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.51
