Show count: 15

Cities/Venues:
Norfolk: Two and Ghost, The NorVa, Charlie's American Cafe
Virginia Beach: Back Bay Brewing, Utopia Feni
Richmond: Canal Club, Fireplace, The Camel
Baltimore: Baltimore Soundstage
Newport News: Boathouse Live
Chapel Hill: Local 506
Fayetteville: Drunk Horse Pub

Bands (highlights tagged): Maciahson, Rose Milk, ALNTN, Give 'Em Hell Kid, Mosquito Cabaret, Dry Reef, Of Alessa, The Sugar Lips, Stereo-Types, Cedar Green, Riviera, Alex Jonestown Massacre, Idle Threat, The Still Small Voice, Inthewater, Household, Have Mercy, Reggie and the Full Effect, Senses Fail, Eaves, Vilified, Savage Hands, The Devil Wears Prada, Nightwish, American Hercules, Alexa Rose, Logan Vath, Eminence Ensemble, Matisyahu, Tall Heights, Colony House, Judah and the Lion, Caroline Weinroth, Alan Getto, The Lazy Dangers, Joy, Dwell, Vatican, End, Advent, Super Whatevr, Gleemer, Can't Swim, Movements, O House of Jacob, DENS, Strawberry Girls, Skyharbor, Silent Planet, terra.sick, Live For What Lasts, Doormiveglia, Cult Territory

New venues: 2/12
New bands: 21/53
-----------------------------------------------

March wrap up!

I haven't posted a March wrap up yet? Whoops...thought I was only a month or so behind on these.

Shows in March: 15
Shows in 2018 so far: 44

Notable new artists to me: The Still Small Voice, The Lazy Dangers, Super Whatevr, Can't Swim, Cult Territory

Best show: Movements in Richmond.

Shows I was bummed to miss: Dropkick Murphys at Norva

Best police interaction: The GEHK show at 2&G (my house). Cops showed up, explained they were a little confused about why anyone was complaining at 8:30pm on a Friday, were shocked we planned on ending things as early as 10pm, then told us to turn down just a bit and tell the band they sounded good. Show then went on unimpeded (Nice try, Billy).

Weirdest ticket buying/selling experience: I put off buying a ticket to Matisyahu too long and the show sold out, and I was having problems finding anyone who'd sell me just one ticket. Ended up buying two tickets while en route to the venue, then sold the extra one before the person I was buying the tickets from had even showed up to hand them to me (luckily the person buying that one took longer to show up). Then, right as the guy I sold my extra to shows up and gets out of his car, another car stops in the road nearby, the driver gets out and starts screaming at the guy who was coming to get the ticket from me. Apparently he cut her off or something. So there I am, just kinda standing to the side waiting for the scene to dissolve so I can get my $20 and split; fortunately he found a quick moment to exchange ticket/money before going back to dealing with the angry driver. Buy your tickets early, folks.

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 2 of the 12 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 21 of the 53 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2018: 3.67
Days/shows ratio so far for 2018: 2.05:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 2.19
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.53

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066

