Show count: 12

Cities/Venues:
Richmond: Broadberry, My Noodle and Bar, The National
Carrboro: Cat's Cradle
Chesapeake: Riffhouse Pub
Norfolk: The NorVa, Toast, Charlie's American Cafe
Washington: Rock and Roll Hotel
Virginia Beach: Shaka's Live
Fredericksburg: TJ's World

Bands (highlights tagged): Marvel Years, Sunsquabi, Will Wood, Pete Curry, Covet, Hail the Sun, Polyphia, Patheos, Vilified, Weeping Wound, VCTMS, Shadows, Ohmme, Iron and Wine, Bad Waitress, Candy, Fucked Up, Illucinate, AU5, Jason Ross, Seven Lions, Movements, Citizen, Turnover, The Story So Far, Downhaul, Boxford, Daddy Issues, Tiny Moving Parts, Logan Vath, The Last Bison, Vatican, Cryptodira, Kaonashi, Not Of It, Chris Bernstorf, My Heart My Anchor

New venues: 2/12
New bands: 19/37
-----------------------------------------------

November wrap up!

November was great. Went hiking early in the month, then immediately drove to Richmond to catch two shows. Went to tons of great shows beyond that, and even still had to miss a ton of other great shows. Somehow, in the midst of all this, I managed to do NaNoWriMo for the first time, coming in at a bit over 50075 words in the end. I'm still not sure where I found the time for that.

Shows in November: 13
Shows in 2018 so far: 144

Notable new artists to me: Covet, Polyphia, Candy, Iron and Wine, Weeping Wound, VCTMS

Best show: I'm not sure I can pick for this month. Polyphia/Covet, Iron and Wine, Story So Far, Tiny Moving Parts, My Heart My Anchor -- these were all great. Tiny Moving Parts or Iron and Wine might just barely edge out the others, unless I include hanging out after the show, then I think MHMA is the clear winner.

Point is, November was too good.

Shows I was bummed to miss: Emery in Lynchburg, Real Friends in RVA, Accident Prone in VB (twice), Thank You Scientist in RVA, Joshua Eadie and the Commonwealth in RVA, Of Alessa/Two Cars/Inthewater in RVA, Qajaq/Christian Welch in Fredericksburg, Spite/Left Behind in RVA, TLB in Norfolk and DC, Mae in Norfolk, Kublia Khan in Norfolk, Druch Church in RVA, and I've missed all too many Harm shows lately.

Like I said, there was a lot going on this month.

Best random crowd interaction: Iron and Wine. That show was a particularly interesting one. I&W struck me as an artist that wouldn't be disappionting live, but that I wouldn't be rushing out to see again either, but that ended up being one of the best shows of the month. There was a lot of crowd interaction--some of which was pretty odd. For instance, between songs one guy in the balcony randomly shouted "Don't leave me here alone!". The artist replied, "Look around, everyone here loves you." "It's not just me...I'm not alone!" balcony-man shouted back. And then the show went on like none of that had happened. Weird night, for sure. There were a couple other weird interactions, but in addition to all that just the general level of interaction despite the size of the venue was surprising. Definitely someone I'd go see again.

Best crowd energy: Tiny Moving Parts had a surprisingly energetic crowd despite how few people seemed to show up. The energy stayed consistent enough and I was close enough to the front that when I finally turned around I was shocked to see how few people there actually were. Honorable mention: TSSF was an energetic of a show as ever, despite losing stage diving by having to move up to The National from Shaka's (which is where they've played the last few times they were in the area). 

Best crowd surfing near-disaster averted: Tiny Moving Parts. Guy surfs nearly to the stage (with the crowd size, this wasn't very far), then flips backwards rather than going to the gap between barrier and stage. As he did, he looked like he was about to land in sitting position on the shoulders of a shorter girl. Instead, she ended up knocked over, and just before he came crashing into her face, two guys caught him in a sitting position above her. Very quickly turned from "oh this might be bad" to "hey that was pretty cool."

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 2 of the 12 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 19 of the 37 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2018: 3.06
Days/shows ratio so far for 2018: 2.32:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 2.44
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 14.22

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066

