2018 wrap up!

Compared to 2017, 2018 felt a bit more relaxed in regards to the number of shows I attended, but it did fall more in line with previous years (not that there are many full years worth comparing to). Last year I saw 212 shows, in 2016 it was 164, and in 2015 it was 158 (2014 was 52, but I only really started going to many shows around September that year). That actually makes 2018 the slowest full year since I started attending shows more regularly. There's no particular reason why that stands out to me, but maybe I'm overlooking something *shrug*. Guess we'll see how the numbers play out for 2019.

I went to more new states this year than I think I've ever done before (8). Also, this was the first time I flew out for a trip based primarily around shows (going through AZ, NV, and CA before flying back home from AZ). Weird shift from just driving everywhere, but with any luck, I'll be doing that again this coming year, as I've still got a number of states left to see shows in.

In the first half of the year, Austin and I got to host 7 shows at Two and Ghost before we had to move out, bringing our final total to 21 shows hosted there. Definitely sad to see that go; TAG is easily one of the coolest things I've done. Loved finally being in a good position to offer something to the DIY community that means so much to me. Hopefully, I'll be back in good spot to do that again. I miss it.

The rest of this is going to be a long post with various stats and highlights from the year. Do yourself a favor and check out some of the bands that get mentioned.

---------

Shows in 2018: 151

Month with the most shows: February (17)
Month with the fewest shows: December (8)
Longest period of time without a show: 9 days (9/10-9/18)
Longest streak of shows: 7 (2/12-2/18) Didn't have very many sustained streaks this year, which is probably why the year overall felt much slower/more relaxed than I'm used to.

Unique bands seen: 435
Bands seen for the first time: 284 (65.2%) 
Most new bands in one month: 43 (May)

Unique venues attended: 69
New venues attended: 31 (44.9%)
Top 5 venues by showcount: Charlie's American Cafe (12), The NorVa (10), Pourhouse of Norfolk (8), Danray House (8)

Number of cities I saw shows in: 31
Top 5 cities by showcount: Norfolk, VA (53); Richmond, VA (46);, Virginia Beach, VA (12); Lynchburg, VA (7); Fredericksburg, VA (3)

States I saw a show in for the first time: 8 (AZ, CA, IN, KY, ME, NH, NV, VT)
131/151 shows were in VA, NC came in second with 6

I've also been trying to see a show on each calendar date. Made a good bit of progress towards that goal this year.
Months complete: 7/12
Days complete: 354/366

And some lifetime counts:
Bands: 1855
Shows: 803
Venues: 287
Cities: 102
States: 31
Countries: 2
---------

Now, time to switch off of numbers and get more into specific bands and shows.

Best bands/artists I saw for the first time this year (in alphabetical order): Ankle Grease, Candy, Canker Blossom, DRMCTHR, Honeysuckle, Iron and Wine, Polyphia, Sub-radio, Silver Age, WARGIRL, Weeping Wound
Other noteworthy artists I saw for the first time (reverse alphabetical order): The Lazy Dangers, Kameron Barton, I the Victor, Dead Birds, Covet, Common Folk, Ashley Wilda

First band of the year: Voltage Divider
Last band of the year: Switchfoot

Bands I saw 3+ times in 2018:
10 Boxford
9 Eaves
7 Logan Vath
7 Inthewater
6 yesman
5 Kevin Schlereth, Of Alessa
4 Accident Prone, ALNTN, DENS, Invaluable, Rosemont, Stereo-Types, The Last Bison
3 Comrades, Deathbreaker, Downhaul, Every King and Commoner, Followship, L.A. Dies, Mirador, Mosquito Cabaret, Movements, My Heart My Anchor, Namesake, Rose Milk, Second to Safety, Time Nothing, Two Cars, Vacation Manor

Top 10 shows (in chronological order):
When cops showed up at Two and Ghost - Technically, this covers three shows, but I'm considering them as a unit for this list. Each time a certain neighbor had a noise complaint, the cops would show up, Austin and I would have a brief, pleasant chat with them, and they would leave without us having to stop the show (although one time they did tell us we had to tell the band who was playing that they sounded good).

Honeysuckle/Ian Thornton at Toast - Not long into the show, Ian encouraged the crowd to shout out any questions/comments we had and not feel like the set had to be a one-way street for communication. The crowd took advantage of this, and that mood and openness carried over into Honeysuckle's set. This worked beautifully with the size and type of crowd, and made the show feel a lot more intimate and familial. Very cool experience, although I'm still not quite sure how we started talking about minotaurs...

Jayfest/Flood City Fest - I can't say enough about this. After going to FCF, my biggest regret was that I hadn't gone previously. Going in, I made a goal for/agreement with myself: I was going to meet (at least) one new person. Rather than be fully introverted/antisocial or just cling to who I knew, I wanted to strech myself a little bit and meet someone. I almost immediately threw out this goal after I arrived. The problem? Too many great friends I hadn't seen and too little time. I knew it would take all the free time and social energy I could muster just to greet everyone I already knew, there was no way I could also focus on getting new people into the mix (Not to say I avoided new people, and I actually did end up meeting several new friends there, I just didn't make it a priority). It's like a big family reunion for this portion of the DIY music community I've fallen into. While all of the music is great, this is the type of gathering I would have loved even if there wasn't a single note being played. Already can't wait for May to come around so I can go back.

Underoath in Lynchburg - I was hesitant about this show going in. I wasn't familiar with any of the openers, nor was I a big fan of Underoath's latest release. Would it be worth the 4-hour trip? Turns out, it absolutely was. For one, it gave me a chance to catch up with a lot more of my Lynchburg friends than I thought I'd have time to see. Beyond that, Underoath's was a ton of fun. Haven't had that much energy or been that actively involved in a set in a while.

Every King and Commoner/Second to Safety/theLionhearted at Two and Ghost - This was our final Two and Ghost show, and it was as great a time as I could have hoped for. Our usual mix of locals/touring and new bands/bands we'd hosted before, but a great mix all around. As soon as we knew we were going to have to call it quits, we knew we wanted EK&C on the show, so we were stoked they could play and that it worked out with the StC/Lionhearted tour.

Glich Mob at The National - Not a lot to say about this show specifically, it was just a ton of fun. Love Glitch Mob and hadn't had an opportunity to see them before.

Lynchstock - Lynchstock is always worthwhile because of the opportunity it buys me to see a ton of my Lynchburg friends. Lynstock has the right blend of music to bring several of them to the festival, and has enough breathing room and free time for me to step out and meet other friends downtown nearby. Lynchstock 2018 was no exception -- great music, old fiends, exactly what I hoped for.

Iron and Wine in Norfolk - I could say a lot here (wrote almost 900 words about this show previously). For one, I didn't actually think I'd care for I&W live much, but wanted to give them a shot--I was dead wrong there. Even without the oddities of this specific show, I think I would have loved it. Beyond the music itself though, there was a very odd crowd at Norva that night. I'll just highlight my favorite weird crowd/artist interaction. Between songs, one man suddenly called out from the balcony, "Don't leave me here alone!" Weirdly, it sounded directed to the stage. Sam (vocalist) looked in his direction and said, "Look around, everyone here loves you." Then the man shouted back, "It's not just me! I'm not alone!" and the show carried on. (Quick shoutout to NOCELLPHONES woman and the STFU crowd)

Tiny Moving Parts in Virginia Beach - TMP's set felt crazy and intense from start to finish. This is no surprise with their performance, but that all of that high energy was present in the bulk of the crowd as well made this show feel huge. I was shocked at one point to turn around and see there were maybe 35-40 people there. There was also an intense moment when a crowdsurfer rolled backwards off the crowd and quite landed sitting on the face of a girl who'd fallen as he was coming down. At the last second, 2-3 guys managed to catch him in midair, almost in a seated position, and carry him to a safe section of floor to land on. Fun times.

My Heart My Anchor/Chris Bernstorf at TJ's World - Love MHMA, love Chris Bernstorf, love TJ's world--that's nearly enough to put this show on this list. What really kicked it up a notch was hanging out afterwards. I won't try and detail everything that went down, but it was a stellar night. Oil spill.

(Random note: 3 of my top 10 shows were in May, and 3 were in November. Good months, I guess)

Honorable mentions (no particular order):
Lantern Fest in Richmond
The Story So Far/Turnover/Movements @ The National
Polyphia/Hail the Sun/Covet @ Cat's Cradle
STRFKR/Repaliens @ The National
Nightwish @ Norva
LIGHTS @ Norva
Movements @ The Camel
Nightwish @ Norva
As Cities Burn/DRMCTHR @ Golden Pony
Warped Tour in Virginia Beach
Vacation Manor/Sub-Radio @ Capital Ale House RVA

--
Here's some random other memories/facts/notes/etc from the year that didn't fit elsewhere

On two occasions in February, I apparently seemed depressed enough that (probably drunk) complete strangers felt it was necessary to come console me. First, the Goldfish show in VB. Some girl walking past me suddenly threw an arm around my shoulder and said "I don't know what girl has got you down like this, but she's not worth it. You're a great guy, I can tell. Cheer up, it'll be all right," and then just walked away. Two weeks later at the Broccoli Samurai show in Richmond, I was looking down at my phone when a stranger approached me to tell me I should smile because I would look nicer. I acquiesced to get them to move on, but when they passed me again later in the night, I saw them start to beeline towards me--I wasn't smiling. To ward them off, I flashed them a quick smile and told myself if it happened again that night I was just going to go home because the show wasn't worth dealing with them lol.

Boxford covered the TMNT theme song twice, which is great. Their soundcheck is also why I the Beyblade theme keeps finding it's way back into my head.

At the Cro-Mags show, some guy got his head busted open (didn't really see how) and they had to clear out the venue to get him taken care of and clean things up. Somehow, despite all that, the show only seemed to be running about 10 minutes behind.

Logan shared at the songwriters-in-the-round show at Victorian Station that his then-pregnant girlfriend had said that anytime Ian Thornton sang, the baby went crazy. But, to Logan's dismay, his own singing didn't seem to elicit any reaction from his son. 

On 4/14, I saw Brettan Cox play at a small house show in Richmond. On 4/15, she was playing at an even smaller house show at my house. She and I were talking shortly after she arrived when she asked, "Does someone else live here too? Last night someone said that someone from the show in Richmond lived here..." Apparently I managed to go completely unrecognized. Maybe I need to attach some large identifying feature to my chin to help people see me...

Enter Shikari's show in Richmond is the first one I've seen that got delayed for a fire alarm mid-show (but it's not the first mid-show fire alarm I've witnessed).

In DC, a homeless man briefly followed me and buzzed at me.

I went to a show at a cool record shop (Surface Noise, which my GPS pronounced as "surface noi-ezz") in KY. The owner had his dog roaming the shop and also a small art exhibit featuring a couple local artists in the back. He also had a small collection of books for sale and some great recommendations for local restaurants to check out.

Cassie and I accidentally went to a metal show. I was amused; she was not.

My second worst injury of the year having a shattered piece of Christmas ornament plunged deeply into my thumb after Lori violently smashed it on the ground in July. I may be misrepresenting how that whole situation went down.

For some reason, I had the bright idea to go from Nofolk, to a show in Charlotte (Last Bison), to a show in Greensboro (To Serve Man), then back to Norfolk all in one day. It was a lot of fun; I was very tired.

My worst show experience this year was The Last Bison and Logan Vath at Toast. Nothing was wrong with the show itself, but an hour or so after arriving I started discovering I was getting sick and spent the rest of the show with a pounding headache and a fever, since I refused to just leave early.

--

This post in memory of the following: Canker Blossom, Dwell, O House of Jacob, My Heart My Anchor, To Serve Man, The 4t, Strange Matter, Shakas, and Two & Ghost


[random]
I'm still confused about the two fights at Charlies for Invaluable/Boxford
Tornado Bait
Kevin Schlereth/My Epic show just for some of the things that were said (Kevin: glorifying doubt, Aaron: having doubt, Jay: this is awkward I love you)
Dan being shocked I actually came to Baltimore
--

