Show count: 8

Shows (highlights tagged):
10 - Richmond, VA - Canal Club
Genosha, Quentin Sauve, Birds in Row, Listener

17 - Johnstown, PA - Crucified Church
Common Folk, Elephant Jake, Khamsin, Justin Cole, Dive, En Love, Darlington, Servants, Foxwell, The Still Small Voice, Idle Threat, Weathered, Chris Bernstorf, Comrades

18 - Johnstown, PA - Crucified Church
Joey Berkey, Second to Safety, Inthewater, Wind Words, Private I, Violent Approach, Qajaq, Vitamin K, Dens, Jacob Goins, Embracer, Gaffer Project, Layers, George Adamson, Cherokee Lann, Marble Teeth, Janelle Maree, Ghost Servant, Orlee, Dad Jokes, Eaves, Families, Winded, Valleyheart, Kevin Schlereth, Irae, My Epic

19 - Falls Church, VA - VFW Post 9274
Little Volcanoes, Fix Your Hearts, Comrades

24 - Chicago, IL - Bottom Lounge
Anays, Rarity, Ghost Key, Better Off, Casey

25 - Madison, WI - Art In
Second to Safety, Inthewater, The Grease Monkeys

28 - Fredericksburg, VA - TJ's World
Common Folk, Darlington

31 - Greensboro, NC - New York Pizza
Paezor, Velvet Devils, Nuclear Desolation

New venues: 2/7
New bands: 25/56
-----------------------------------------------

May wrap up!

This is gonna be a long one. May be crazy.

At the beginning of the month, I tied my longest string of days without attending a show (9 days without shows); that has now happened three times. By the end of the month, May had also become part of a 3-way tie for the lowest number of shows seen in a month (both of these are since Oct 2014, which is when I started going to shows more frequently). Despite that, May was one of the craziest months I've had in a while.

This was my second time going to Flood City Fest, and it was every bit as amazing as the first. I ended up doing a *little* extra driving this time around, so between the end of the show Friday and the beginning of the show Saturday I kinda...made a quick trip back to Richmond. All told, from Friday morning through Sunday night I did about 22 hours of driving and got about 12 hours of sleep. All totally worth it though.

My rough plans were see Casey in Chicago on Friday, see literally anyone in Wisconsin on Saturday, see literally anyone in Missouri on Sunday, then drive home. I didn't quite make it too Missouri (I'll get to that in a bit), but I did still manage to have a pretty great trip. One thing I've missed in my more recent multi-day trips that I used to do more often is finding time to see people I know that I might not get to see much. That's happened either because I've ended up places where I didn't know anyone, or just because timing was too awkward/tight to make it work. For this trip though, I ended up seeing friends at every step.

First, I caught up with Dylan (from NC) at the show in Chicago. From there, I got to hang out with Dan and Erica and Fallon for a bit. Saturday I surprised Nick, Lori, and the Second to Safety boys in Wisconsin, and then since I had some extra time available from dropping MO from the trip, I got to swing by Ohio to see Tina (who I hadn't seen in...5 years?) and her family. It's always great seeing familiar faces out on the road. On on a non-friends note, I consistently got to have some pretty great food throughout this trip, which is also always a huge plus.

Now, in the middle of all of this, I was in the process of moving out. I had to get everything out of my house and dumped into a storage unit. I was out of town virtually every weekend, and because of work on weekdays I only had about a 4-hour window to pack and take things to the storage unit each night. Since I had a whole month to work on this, I wasn't too concerned, but that casual, unconcerned approach backfired by the end of the month. I ended up staying up until 3-4am each night to pack/clean, then I'd wake up early to squeeze in a couple extra hours of time to run to the storage unit before work on any morning when my alarm clock could break through the sleepiness.

As the end of the month drew closer, I started feeling like I wasn't going to have enough time to get everything done. I ended up skipping the Missouri leg of my Memorial Day weekend trip to buy myself an extra day to pack. Of course, being me, I *also* refused to dip below my previous fewest shows in a month, so I took time to go to Fredericksburg and Greensboro to inch my total back up to 8 at the last moment. Then, on the 28th, since I wasn't stressed enough, I found out my dad was in the ICU getting a pacemaker after a heart attack (he's doing well now, praise King Jesus!). That evening, I decided that, despite how short on time I was, I was going to Fredericksburg for a show. I needed that reprieve from the stress, I told myself--and I was right. When I got home after the show that night, I had a weird surge of energy and got an unprecedented amount of packing done.

So, by the end of things, I managed to get everything packed. I might've been 3 hours late to work as I finished moving the morning of the 31st, but I got it done. I survived May 2019, one of the most hectic months I've had in a while.

Shows in May: 8
Shows in 2019 so far: 49

Notable new artists to me: Birds in Row, Khamsin, Violent Approach, Little Volcanoes, Rarity

Best show: Flood City Fest, duh?

Shows I was bummed to miss: Ratboys in Charlottesville, mewithoutYou in RVA, Hot Mulligan in RVA (still irked about that one), the final show at Fireplace, Harm/Heirloom in GSO, and Schlereth/Common Folk in RVA

Best use of fruit in a mosh pit: That poor banana at Flood City Fest

Weirdest mid-set conversation about the Irish:
Dan (from Listener): Are there any questions at this point in the set?
Person: How do you feel about Richmond?
Dan: How do I feel about Irishmen?
Person: No, Richmond!
Dan: Oh, I like Richmond. Let's not get into how I feel about Irishmen.
Person: Well we like you. Richmond, I mean. I can't speak for the Irishmen.

Other random facts/stats:
This month was my first time at 2 of the 7 venues I went to.
This month was my first time seeing 25 of the 56 bands I saw perform live.
Avg shows per week for 2019: 2.33
Days/shows ratio so far for 2019: 3.08:1
Approximate avg shows per month since birth: 2.59
Avg shows per month since Sept '14: 13.75

Other months: https://www.facebook.com/espiekarski/notes?lst=100001385057628%3A1405230010%3A1484594066

