2019 wrap up! This is gonna be long. 

The lowest full year of shows since I started actively attending shows, but still involved a ton of traveling. I blame that on the number of nights I stayed home to do some writing, so while the show count may seem oddly low to me, I can look at the ~300 pages of writing I got done instead and be ok with that.

Anyways, here's some numbers and stuff, first for just 2019, then some so-far-in-my-life totals. After all that, I'll list my top 10 shows and a spattering of random memories from things that happened. It's long, but thanks to taking the time to even skim through some of it. 
--

Show in 2019: 127

This year, I saw:
2 countries
15 states (+1 province)
35 cities
65 venues
390 unique bands
491 sets

How many of each of those were new to me?
States: 10 (+1 province)
Cities: 16
Venues: 36 (54%)
Bands: 244 (62%)

Top 5 cities by showcount: Richmond (33), Norfolk (33), Virginia Beach (9), Fredericksburg (5), Chesapeake (5)
Top 5 venues by showcount: Canal Club (11), Charlie's American Cafe (9), Pourhouse of Norfolk (8), The NorVA(5), RiffHouse Pub (5), Broadberry (5)

Month with the most shows: November (16)
Months with the fewest shows: May, July (8)
Longest period of time without a show: 12 days (10/13-10/26)
Longest streak of shows: 5 (11/11 - 11/15, my midwest trip)
Most new bands in one month: June, November (33)

I also made some progress on my goal to see a show on each calendar date. 
Months complete: 8/12
Days complete: 359/366
Remaining days: Jan 1, July 30, Nov 25, Dec 23/24/25/26

And some lifetime counts:
Sets: 3656
Bands: 2100 (The Last Bison, Eaves: 33 times each) 
Shows: 938
Venues: 318 (Norva: 62 times)
Cities: 116 (Norfolk: 228 times)
States:  41 (+2 provinces, and DC) (VA: 718 times)
Countries: 2
-------------

Best bands/artists I saw for the first time this year (alphabetical order): Eluveitie, Hepburn, Humbird, Keep Flying, Sophia Hernandez

Other noteworthy artists I saw for the first time (reverse alphabetical order):
TWRP, Thank You Scientist, Shame Spiral, Sekengard, SeeYouSpaceCowboy, Micah Kimber, The Menzingers, Kississippi, Dear Heart, Birds in row, American Arson, Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness

First band of the year: Hepburn
Last band of the year: No/Mas

Bands I saw 3+ times in 2019:
9 times: Eaves
6 times: Comrades, Inthewater
4 times: Chris Bernstorf, DENS, Rosemont, The Last Bison, yesman
3 times: Close Quarters, Darlington, Dogwood Tales, Embracer, Every King and Commoner, Fox and the Bear, Genosha, Hepburn, Irae, Janelle Maree, Justin Cole, Kept on Hold, Logan Vath, Mosquito Cabaret, Second to Safety

Top 10 shows (in chronological order):
1/27 - VFW Post 9274, Falls Church, VA - Knife Spitter, Deep Rest, Suffer Through, Irae, Shame Spiral
Intense show from start to stop, and seeing my MD buddies is always a highlight.

2/16 - Elevation27, Virginia Beach, VA - Many Rooms, From Indian Lakes, Copeland
Copeland was even more beautiful than I expected, and full-band Many Rooms was amazing.

5/17-18: Flood City Fest
I feel like it's almost a shoe-in for this list every year, even without the music. This feels as much like a family reunion as a festival, and I love it. Somewhere on the way to Johnstown, there was an old run down store with a weird sign that said something about onions, but I can't remember what it said. Josiah, Will, Stephanie, any of you remember?

5/24 - Bottom Lounge, Chicago, IL - Anays, Rarity, Ghost Key, Better Off, Casey
First and last time ever seeing Casey, as it was their first show in the United States and their last show ever. Due to passport issues, it looked like most of the band wasn't even going to make it, then things came through last minute and they showed up just a handful of hours before the show. Very worth the drive. Also, I ran into Dylan up there, because where else would I run into NC friends but Chicago, right?

5/28: Fredericksburg, VA: TJ's World - Common Folk, Darlington
Kevin Schlereth also played this, but I missed his set, and that's why it's on this list. Ok, that's probably a lie. This came at the end of a crazy month that got nearly unbearable before it ended.

A week and a half before this, I drove to/from Johnstown twice, then a week later I drove to shows in Chicago and Wisconsin. Amid all this, I running short on time to pack up everything in my house to move into a storage unit, even though I wasn't sure if I'd inadvertently gotten stuck in another year of my lease, which would have made all the nights of minimal sleep wasted. Then, I got a call that my dad was in the hospital recovering from a heart attack. 

I had just skipped a show the night before in order to do more packing. I had too much going on, and I absolutely did not have time to go to this show, but I needed it. I decided to gamble on it, hoping that somehow going to the show would energize me enough to get my packing done when I got home--and that's exactly what happened. The break from the stress to just take some time to be with friends and breathe again for a minute was exactly what I needed. 

Everything fell in order from there. I got all my stuff moved out; I didn't get stuck in a lease; my friends let me live with them while I was between houses, and my dad recovered from his heart attack without any crazy complications.

7/13: Raleigh, NC: The Ritz|I the Mighty, Anberlin
It's Anberlin. Every album they released was solid, and I've always loved them. A chance to see them again is always welcome.

9/28 - Pop's Concert Venue, Sauget, IL - Demon Hunter
The way this show was split into two sets was the perfect way to showcase Demon Hunter's softer side and their heavier side. This trip may have nearly killed me and Rob, but it was a ton of fun. Plus, we got to try St. Louis style pizza, ribs, and barbecue, and we heard a little polka along the way.

10/13 - Baltimore Soundstage, Baltimore, MD - Sekengard, Gone In April, Korpiklaani, Eluveitie
Every band on this show was great. Also, the pit was one of the weirdest I've ever experienced. Most of the time, it was a standard metal pushpit -- nothing weird there. Once, I turned around to see most people in the pit sitting in rows on the ground and acting like they were rowing boats. Another time, during a slower song, everyone in the pit formed a large ring with their arms around each others' shoulders and slowly bounced from side to side in the pit. At another point, a similar ring formed in a faster song, but instead of slowly drifting through the pit, it began to spin in place as everyone in the ring hopped on one foot. Apparently folk metal brings out an oddly jovial side of the mosh pit.

11/08-09: Lantern Fest
It's like Jayfest, but a little less chaotic feeling. Still a ton of friends and a ton of great music. I love Lantern Fest for all the VA bands it brings it that might not end up at a show like FCF. It mixes that standard family of people from across the country I'm used to seeing with a large dose of VA local talent. 

11/15 - The Bottleneck, Lawrence, KS - Tea Club, Bent Knee, Thank You Scientist
I barely knew TYS before this show, and I only knew one Bent Knee song going in (and since it's "Battle Creek", it's not even remotely like the rest of their work), but it was still one of the most fun shows I got to watch. 


Honorable mentions:
2/10 - NorVA, Norfolk, VA - Grizfolk, Flor, Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness
3/3 - Motorco, Durham, NC - New Dialogue, Bel Heir, Smallpools
7/25 - Broadberry, Richmond, VA - TWRP, The Protomen
8/24 - Chester, VA - Eaves, A Year in New York, American Arson, DENS

--------------
And now just some assorted thoughts/memories/facts/whatever about the year, probably not in any real order.

The circumference of the earth is just under 25000 miles at the equator. I don't do any tracking of how much I drive for shows each year, but doing some quick calculations, I think that's about what my mileage just for shows was this year. It's looking at the overall numbers like this that makes me think I might be insane.

I watched a guy place a piece of glass in Richmond.

I went to 10 new states and 1 new province this year, which I'm pretty sure is a record for me. When I first decided to try and see a show in every state, it seemed like a crazy goal, but here I am, just 9 states away. If all goes well, I might only have two states left by the end of 2020.

Sometime in 2020, I'll likely go to my 1000th show.

Nebraska may be the most boring place I've ever seen. I'd say I'd never go back, but I still haven't seen a show there.

Speaking of Nebraska, about halfway across that state I lost phone signal. When I made it to where I was going in Wisconsin, I still didn't have phone signal. Suddenly having to plan how to make it to the next show without internet was a bit stressful. Fortunately, I knew the band I was seeing that night (Humbird) was headed to the same place I was the next day. Also, when I woke up at 4am, my phone had apparently magically found a signal, so all the stress and planning was pretty much useless.

At a Comrades show in Charlottesville, a girl kept trying to spray people in the crowd with her breast milk until she was finally kicked out.

While Emarosa was playing "xo" (https://emarosa.bandcamp.com/track/xo - slowest song of their set) in Richmond, some guy suddenly shouted out "Yaaas bitch!" The vocalist tried to keep it together, but ended up missing multiple lines when he busted up laughing. He seemed almost too confused to be annoyed; it was pretty great.

Best cover I heard: Logan and Mal covering "Barton Hollow" by the Civil Wars.

Here's a conversation that happened in the middle of Listener's set in Richmond (at this point, there had already been a weird too-long discussion about hardcore venues in Paris during the previous band):
Dan (vocalist): Are there any questions at this point in the set?
Person: How do you feel about Richmond?
Dan: How do I feel about Irishmen?
Person: No, Richmond!
Dan: Oh, well I like Richmond. Let's not get into how I feel about Irishmen.
Person: Well, we like you. *pause* Richmond, I mena. I can't speak for the Irishmen.

I've seen few things to needlessly excited an enegetic as the outburst of the Spongebob theme in Statesville when we all piled into a church bus to go get food.

There's a picture of me watching Gull at post RVA fest. Despite the fact that I look like I want to die, Gull was actually one of the artists I was most looking forward to seeing.

Finding out the venue you're trying to get to is surrounded on all sides by a parade when you're already super late and skipped a different show you already had a ticket for anyways is super annoying. Now I've decided I hate parades. Thanks, Fredericksburg.

Funniest song: "Satan Stole My Weed" by Mephiskapheles.

Reactions to me suddenly showing up at Inthewater's show in Wisconsin:
Nick: I'm surprised, but at the same time I'm not surprised at all.
Lori: You're omnipresent. You're actually Jesus. You can't hide it anymore.

Warehouse is mercilessly hot. The vocalist of Bracewar seems to like pitching things violently into the crowd, then demanding that everyone get closer (they did not). Eventually, he hurled a case of water bottles into the crowd. Kinda got mixed signals on that; still can't decide if it was an act of violence with the only thing he could find, or if he just wanted us to stay hydrated because Warehouse kinda feels like a little slice of hell.

Everyone I interacted with in Albuquerque was strangely friendly. It was kind of unsettling.

One band told the crowd between songs that love was a myth and everything was pain. Just before they left the stage they thanked us for listening and said they loved us. Mixed signals there, guys.


--------------

Thank you to anyone who had any part in any of this. Whether you played/booked/hosted a show, fed/hosted a band (or me), hung out with me at/after a show/on the road, or just read some of these posts. Couldn't do it without any of you. This year had some crazy moments but so many more great times with good music and wonderful people. Love you all <3

 This post in memory of the following: Ft Henry, Time Nothing (I feel like I have to be missing someone: there's no way only one venue and one band I saw ended in 2019, but I can't think of who/where else it would be).


